# An Elaborate Gulp Task for HTML, Sass/CSS, and JavaScript

This Gulp template is designed to provide you with a working scaffold for HTML, Sass-driven CSS, and JavaScript. The installation instructions below assume you’re starting out with Gulp, and, thus, are detailed. Seasoned Gulp users will want to skip straight to the `npm install` step.

## Installation

### Java

The `browser-sync` plugin, used in the `serve` task, uses Java to automatically load your browser. So, if you don’t already have Java installed, [get it here](https://www.java.com/en/).

### Enable The Root User

If you’re on a Mac, the `root` user will need to be enabled. Visit [this link](http://tutorials.thecodeeducators.com/enabling_root_user_on_mac_os_10.8/) to learn how. (This doesn’t apply to Windows users, and Linux users will already have the `root` user enabled.)

### Node

Install Node from [here](https://nodejs.org/en/).

### Gulp

With Node installed, we can now run the following command to install Gulp globally:

        npm install --global gulp-cli

Verify that it’s been installed:

        which gulp

### Node Modules

All the required Node modules need to be installed before you can use this template. From the root folder of this project, type…

        npm install

This will create a folder called `node_modules` and download the plugins listed under the `devDependencies` section in the `package.json` file. If you encounter an `ERR!` message about `EACCES`, then you’ll need to run the command as the super user:

        sudo npm install

The 13 Gulp tasks amount to about 220MB, so it will take some time to download all the modules.

## Tasks

Typing `gulp --tasks`, or simply `gulp`, will provide you with a list of tasks included in `gulpfile.js`. Dependencies, or tasks generated by other tasks, are nested in the output of `gulp --tasks`.

Above each task is an elaborate comment discussing what each task does.

## Individual Tasks as Branches

Each of the 13 tasks has been broken out into its own branch, and the full `gulpfile` is available without comments and without variables. You can view all the branches with `git branch -r`.

## Running the Project

For development, run `gulp serve`, which runs multiple development-related tasks, then launches your default browser and listens for changes. Gulp keeps you informed via The Terminal. You can now work on the HTML/Sass/CSS/JavaScript files as you normally would. Each time you save a file, your browser will automatically refresh.

For production, run `build` in order to create a folder called `prod`. This is the folder you’d upload to your server if you were going live with your project.

## About the Scaffold

All your work must be added to the sub-folders under the `dev` folder: your markup in `html`, your Sass/CSS in `styles`, your JavaScript in `scripts`, and your images in `img`.

## About the Example

The example in this project is taken from [https://github.com/code-warrior/abraham-lincoln-assassination-trivia](https://github.com/code-warrior/abraham-lincoln-assassination-trivia) and is not meant to be elaborate. It’s only purpose is to show you how this Gulp-related scaffold uses HTML, Sass/CSS, and JavaScript.
